# My Clicker Game

My Clicker Game! The objective is to click on as many emojis as you can before the timer runs out, and your score increments.
- GitHub Repository: https://github.com/ParisGitCode/codes

# My Project Description
This project is basically a small clicker game I made in p5.js which originally started as something purely visual and relaxing because I wanted to focus on colours and movement and just make something nice to look at, but as I kept experimenting I realised I wanted the visuals to actually do something, so it slowly shifted into more of an arcade‑style game while still keeping that calming aesthetic feeling.
Eventually it became this game where you click on emojis before they disappear and each click makes the emoji shrink (I added a little animation and sound so it feels responsive and satisfying). A new emoji appears every second and I added a score system although I didn’t plan to at first since like I had planned, I wasn't sure I wanted a competitive type of game, but I felt like a score system would be good for that reward feeling when you play a game and would actually make it more enjoyable.

There's a progress bar at the top that shrinks as time runs out so there’s a bit of urgency, and the background changes colour based on the mouse position which keeps the visual side of the project alive since that was important to me from the start. I also added a backing track to make the whole project feel more like a finished game, I was really happy with how the backing track turned out since I did make it myself. Everything is split into a start screen and the main game, and a game‑over screen that shows the final score and lets you restart which in my opinion makes up a game. I think every game typically has an entrance, and then of course the gameplay, and the end screen and I wanted to keep my sequence as simple as that for repeatability. I played a few games on coolmathsgames since that was really the mood I was going for and I liked how each game had a bit of an aspect ratio that feels like it was meant to be in an arcade. I wanted mine to feel like it could be played on a phone, mostly because phone games tend to be the games you play on the go and I still wanted that "I-can-wind-down-and-play-this-game-while-I-wait-for-my-train-or-bus-or-something" feel to it. So overall the whole game ended up being a mix of a minimalist game that moves like an arcade game. I’m actually really happy with how it turned out because I wasn't sure I was able to pull it off, it was extremely tedious and a lot of headaches and trial and error but it ended up looking really good and was definitely interactive and fun to play.

The main themes I implemented for this game were loops and user interface, the goal was to have no keyboard interactions, only the mouse.
My technical approach was solely:
P5.js, and FireAlpaca for drawings and graphics and then BandLab and Audacity for the music! (I will say I got the click sound effect from Pixelbay since I didn't know how to makee it)

I worked on my own for this project, and split everything into chunks.
At first I focused on the click logic and score system, soon after I changed my mind since I didn’t want it to be an actual game with scores and points and a progress system, but I did like the scoring so I kept it (just for satisfaction, I like points!) after that, I focused on the music, this was the hard part. I’m not too experienced in making music so I tried a couple notes on Bandlab, the aim was to make it more of a soft Lofi type of song but it ended up sounding a lot more electronic which wasn’t really what I was going for but I got a little carried away, also I wasn’t really able to mix as well as I’d like to. I designed and drew all the custom character graphics, I initially wanted them to be really detailed, like animated characters but ultimately it was rather out of place for the type of project.

Later on I decided on a whim that I'd make the game a bit more interactive rather than visual. While I liked the visual element, p5.js is quite limiting for the cool stuff I wanted to do, and also I wasn't sure how to do it. Also, deep down I did want to make a game, I just didn't think I would be able to with the timeframe but I did eventually push myself and try and I think it turned out great, despite looking simple it was a lot of hard work.

My sources of inspiration were:
- There's a game called Clicker Heroes on Cool Math Games that I used to play, which was really my first introduction to these type of game. It's a little unheard of but it definitely was something I had in mind while making this.
- Agar.io definitely was in mind, I sort of wanted to do a merge emojis = make it bigger, thing like Agar.io does with the circles but honestly it was rather wishful thinking as it's something I thought up at the last minute (currently finished up this game May 1st and it's due in 4 days so probably not a good idea to switch up now) but I did implement the shrinking of the emojis, I did -=10 which reduces the size of the emoji by 10, but originally the emoji size increased which i thought was cool but honestly shrinking would be a lot more appealing.
- Similarly, another website I had seen some time ago that my sister had shown me, it was a GitHub project and it was like a blob of slime, that would sort of indent and respond to the mouse's motion. I can't remember the name of it (or if it's even still up) but it was incredibly fascinating to me, unfortunately I was unable to replicate this visual effect and opted for a gradient background colour change instead.

Overall, I'm happy with how things turned out and I'm glad I was able to teach myself a lot of p5.js and javascript while doing this.
